### CS5001 Intensive Foundations of CS
Introduces systematic problem solving through programming. Offers students an opportunity to learn how to analyze a problem, how to divide and organize the problem into appropriate components, how to describe the problem in a computer language, how to analyze and understand the behavior of their programs, and how to test that their programs are working correctly. Additionally, introduces a method of program design called object-oriented programming and various ways to organize data, including a discussion of their advantages and disadvantages. To practice the course concepts, students undertake assignments ranging from small, highly specified programming tasks to larger open-ended problems where students design and code their own solutions.

### CS5004 Object Oriented Design
Presents a comparative approach to object-oriented programming and design. Discusses the concepts of object, class, metaclass, message, method, inheritance, and genericity. Reviews forms of polymorphism in object-oriented languages. Contrasts the use of inheritance and composition as dual techniques for software reuse—forwarding vs. delegation and subclassing vs. subtyping. Offers students an opportunity to obtain a deeper understanding of the principles of object-oriented programming and design, including software components, object-oriented design patterns, and the use of graphical design notations such as UML (unified modeling language). Illustrates basic concepts in object-oriented design with case studies in application frameworks and by writing programs in Java.

### CS5008 Data Structures and Algorithms
Presents an integrated approach to the study of data structures, algorithms, and their application within systems topics. Introduces a variety of fundamental algorithmic techniques (divide-and-conquer, dynamic programming, graph algorithms) and systems topics (models of computation, computer architecture, compilation, system software, networking). Demonstrates the integration of topics through programming assignments in the C language that implement fundamental data structures (lists, queues, trees, maps, graphs) and algorithms as they are applied in computer systems. Additional breadth topics include programming applications that expose students to primitives of different subsystems using threads and sockets.

### CS5100 Foundations of Artificial Intelligence
Introduces the fundamental problems, theories, and algorithms of the artificial intelligence field. Topics include heuristic search and game trees, knowledge representation using predicate calculus, automated deduction and its applications, problem solving and planning, and introduction to machine learning. Required course work includes the creation of working programs that solve problems, reason logically, and/or improve their own performance using techniques presented in the course. Requires experience in Java programming.

### CS5200 Database Management Systems
Introduces relational database management systems as a class of software systems. Prepares students to be sophisticated users of database management systems. Covers design theory, query language, and performance/tuning issues. Topics include relational algebra, SQL, stored procedures, user-defined functions, cursors, embedded SQL programs, client-server interfaces, entity-relationship diagrams, normalization, B-trees, concurrency, transactions, database security, constraints, object-relational DBMSs, and specialized engines such as spatial, text, XML conversion, and time series. Includes exercises using a commercial relational or object-relational database management system.

### CS5500 Found of Software Engineering
Covers the foundations of software engineering, including software development life cycle models (e.g., waterfall, spiral, agile); requirements analysis; user-centered design; software design principles and patterns; testing (functional testing, structural testing, testing strategies); code refactoring and debugging; software architecture and design; and integration and deployment. Includes a course project where some of the software engineering methods (from requirements analysis to testing) are applied in a team-based setting. Requires admission to MS program or completion of all transition courses.

### CS6140 Machine Learning
Provides a broad look at a variety of techniques used in machine learning and data mining, and also examines issues associated with their use. Topics include algorithms for supervised learning including decision tree induction, artificial neural networks, instance-based learning, probabilistic methods, and support vector machines; unsupervised learning; and reinforcement learning. Also covers computational learning theory and other methods for analyzing and measuring the performanceof learning algorithms. Course work includes a programming term project.

### CS6220 Data Mining Techniques
Covers various aspects of data mining, including classification, prediction, ensemble methods, association rules, sequence mining, and cluster analysis. The class project involves hands-on practice of mining useful knowledge from a large data set.

